Fantasy Football Draft Simulator Description:

I wanted to have a tool for simulating fantasy football drafts of different formats and draft strategies to help prepare for an actual season's draft. I decided to create a web app using JavaScript and jQuery. The starting point of the web app is the FFDraftSimulator.html file which allows the user to select things like the number of teams participating, the pick the user is to make, the draft format (linear or snake) and the number of players at each position for each team’s roster including bench players. A FFDraftSimulator.css file is also used for some basic component styling. A ‘Continue’ button is provided which runs the JavaScript file FFDraftSimulator.js and takes the user to the main draft form or page. On the main draft page there exists a Player Rankings text area, a Draft History text area and a third text area that allows the user to switch between viewing their own roster, all team rosters, draft settings and final draft results when the draft has completed. The Player Rankings text area also has buttons below it that allow the user to filter on players at specific positions. The player rankings are read in from a .CSV file and include the latest overall fantasy football player rankings for the current year. A team strategies .CSV file is also read in which specifies which position each team is to choose in each round. This is the approach I used to configure draft strategies. It can be tweaked to simulate how teams in your league are likely to draft. These position per round for each team settings also dictate how the automated portion of the application runs. A ‘Start Draft’ button exists to kick off the draft. The user is prompted to make his or her pick when their turn is up. A ‘Draft Selected Player’ button lives just below the Player Rankings text area and position filter buttons. The user highlights the player they wish to select in the Player Rankings text area and then presses the ‘Draft Selected Player’ button to make their pick. When the draft is complete the used can click on the ‘Draft Results’ button to view a ranking of total projected points for each team. This data is shown in the text area labelled ‘User Roster etc.’.
